# Project Overview
In this project, I analyzed AQI data and turned it into insights that helped design a product–market fit air purifier.

# Business Problem:
Airborne Innovations is a startup aiming to tackle rising air pollution in cities by launching air purifiers. However, before investing in R&D, the company needs clarity on four key areas:
- Whether there is real demand for air purifiers in the market.
- Which pollutants should be targeted for maximum effectiveness.
- The most essential features customers expect in an air purifier.
- The cities with the highest demand and how competitors are performing.

# Goal of the Project:
The goal of this project is to analyze AQI data and provide insights to determine the real demand for air purifiers, 
- Identify the pollutants that purifier should focus on.
- Identify high demand cities where we can satisfy the demand and make profits
- Features that purifier should focus on
- Competitor Analysis

# Tools Used: 
### SQL: Writing complex queries to answer the business questions and derive the insights.
### Tableau: Converting the complex insights to visuals for easy understandiing.

# Methodology/Approach:
- Collected the datasets ( AQI_dataset, idsp_dataset( disease data ), Vahan_dataset (Vehicle data) and then imported them into MYSQL Server
- Wrote SQL Queries (joins, cte's, window functions, subquery) to derive the insights.
- Imported all the datasets into the tableau and joined them.
- Visualized every insight in Tableau using plots and charts.
- Created a project Report in ppt in the end.

# Problems faced:
- There was no sufficient data available for the secondary analysis so external data from public sources has been used like govt sites (used data generated by Ai)
- There was a question where we need to analyze if people are aware about the AQI or not (Impossible finding out with exisiting data). So we used google trends which tells us how often people searched for a particular word (in our case AQI).

# Insights Found:
- Northern India and large cities face higher AQI, while South India has lower levels.
- PM10 and PM2.5 are the primary pollutants driving poor air quality.
- AQI values peak during the winter months of November to February.
- Dyson & HoneyWell target the premium range with good features like HEPA filter and inbuilt App whereas Xiaomi & Philips focus on budget side offering limited features
- The 60+ and 45-59 age groups are the most affected by illness due to poor air quality.
- Policies to improve air quality are more effective in South Indian cities compared to those in North India.
- High EV adoption does not consistently lead to lower AQI, with Karnataka being the only exception.
- People are aware about AQI meaning but not aware about the health effects due to high AQI.

# Recommendations to the Company:
- PM10 and PM2.5 are the biggest troublemakers, so purifier should be designed in a way which can filter these pollutants.
- Launching the purifier in the mid-range segment can help fill a market gap, offering premium-level features such as an inbuilt app and HEPA filter at a more accessible price point.
- Purifier should be grouped into categories such as domestic and industrial use where domestic ones should focus on more filtering dust and particulate matter whereas industrial ones should focus on chemaical gas filteration and odour removal.
- Include alerts on purifier to show replace filter alerts for the elderly people who are not comfortable using app.
- Many users, especially older ones, will run it overnight → ensure low noise modes and power-saving modes.
- Push marketing efforts in North India as it’s the most polluted region, and people there are more likely to invest in an air purifier.



